In version 2.0 OpenDNSSEC got a entire re-write of the enforcer.  This part
of OpenDNSSEC controls changing signing keys in the right way to perform a
roll-over.  Before 2.0, the enforcer would perform a roll-over according to
a strict paradigm.  One scenario in which deviations would not be possible.

The new enforcer is more aware of the zone changes being propagated in the
Internet.  It can therefor decide when it is safe to make changes, rather
than to rely upon a given scenario.  This makes it possible now for OpenDNSSEC
to:
- Allow changing your TTL values and all other related parameters in your
  key and signing policy (KASP).  OpenDNSSEC will know which outdated records
  may still be on the Internet due to their TTL and only roll when it is safe.
- It is possible to safely roll to an unsigned situation, without going bogus.
- Perform a roll-over procedure at any time, even if a roll-over procedure is
  still in progress, this way you can abort a roll-over and perform emergency
  roll-overs.
- Perform a roll-over to a different signing algorithm.  DNSSEC requires the
  algorithm number of ZSK and KSK to be the same, so a roll-over to a different
  algorithm requires a different sequence.
- Since there is no longer a single scenario, it will become possible to
  perform other roll-over methods, like a double DS roll-over or a double RRSIG
  roll-over.

These features keep your zone valid even in situations where changing parameters
could trap you into a bogus situation.  OpenDNSSEC chooses the fastest safe
steps to keep (or even heal) your zone.
Other features have also been realized in this rewrite:

- Shared keys, allowing multiple zones to share the most recent signing key
  for that policy.  Useful when having many zones, and a limited storage in
  your HSM.
- Combined keys, allow KSK and ZSK to be the same key, also limiting the
  usage of keys, but also simplify key usage.
- Also allow zones to pass unsigned.  This allows for a chain of software
  packages where both signed and unsigned zones can follow the same steps in
  your chain, simplifying the set-up.
- And the enforcer no longer requires to be run periodically, but runs as a
  proper daemon which wakes up at the proper time.
- Allow for multiple HSMs, also allowing you to roll to roll your zone from
  keys in one HSM to another.  Or to store KSK and ZSK separately.
- This could even be used in set-ups where the keyset is signed separately
  from your zone.
- And the enforcer daemon can now be queried and given commands using command
  line channel.
